# Hex Settlers
### By: Nicolas Milazzo


## Summary:
Hex Settlers is a remake of the classic board game Settlers of Catan, and thus shares the same rules. 
Any questions about rules would most likely be answered by the official Catan rulebook. The game is 
played exclusively in the output terminal. 

### Brief Rules Overview
- Hex Settlers is played with 2 - 4 players
- Players start by taking turns choosing an intersection for a settlement and a connected path for a road
- Turn order in this phase of the game reverses at the end, so the last player is the first player for the
  next round of setup.
- After each player has placed two settlements and two roads, they each gain the resources from the tiles
  adjacent to their last placed settlement and the game begins.

- The first player to set up their pieces goes first, and a turn goes as follows:

1) Roll the dice. Numbers on the tiles correspond to the dice result. Tiles matching the result generate resources
    for players who own buildings adjacent to the tile.

2) Resolve the robber. If a 7 was rolled, all players with more than 7 cards in hand must discard half of them, and 
    the current player must move the robber to a new tile. The robber prevents resource generation on its tile

3) Take actions. On a player's turn, they may take actions including building with their resources, trading resources
    with other players or the bank, or playing development cards which were crafted at least 1 turn prior. At any point
    during this phase of a player's turn, they may pass, which moves onto the next player's turn and the steps continue.

- The game if a player has 10 or more victory points and a player passes their turn. If this occurs, the player with 10
or more victory points wins the game, and their victory point overview is displayed.

### Code
This project was coded entirely in C++ from scratch over the course of 4 weeks. All coded was generated by myself, except
for the first line in main.cpp: "system(("chcp "s + to_string(CP_UTF8)).c_str());". This line allows colored text to be
displayed, and ANSI escape codes for colored text was found online and expanded upon for personal needs.

Here is the link to the source of main.cpp line 1:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32742850/how-to-show-colored-console-output-in-clion

Here is the line to the ANSI escape code information:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4842424/list-of-ansi-color-escape-sequences


### Required External Installations
There are no required installations to run the program. It all works in the console in CLion. However, there is no
guarantee that colored text features will work outside CLion, as the line which allows the colored text to work is stated
to allow colored text in CLion specifically.